.TH SLAPO-NESTGROUP 5 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" Copyright 2024 The OpenLDAP Foundation, All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See the COPYRIGHT file.
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.SH NAME
slapo\-nestgroup \- Nested Group overlay to slapd
.SH SYNOPSIS
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B nestgroup
overlay to
.BR slapd (8)
supports evaluation of nested groups in Search operations. Support consists
of four possible features: inclusion of parent groups when searching with
(member=) filters, inclusion of child groups when searching with (memberOf=)
filters, expansion of child groups when returning member attributes, and
expansion of parent groups when returning memberOf attributes. Each of
these features may be enabled independently. By default, no features are
enabled, so this overlay does nothing unless explicitly enabled.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The config directives that are specific to the
.B nestgroup
overlay must be prefixed by
.BR nestgroup\- ,
to avoid potential conflicts with directives specific to the underlying
database or to other stacked overlays.

.TP
.B overlay nestgroup
This directive adds the nestgroup overlay to the current database; see
.BR slapd.conf (5)
for details.

.LP
The following
.B slapd.conf
configuration options are defined for the nestgroup overlay.

.TP
.BI nestgroup\-member \ <member-ad>
The value
.I <member-ad>
is the name of the attribute that contains the names of the members
in the group objects; it must be DN-valued.
It defaults to \fImember\fP.

.TP
.BI nestgroup\-memberof \ <memberof-ad>
The value
.I <memberof-ad>
is the name of the attribute that contains the names of the groups
an entry is member of; it must be DN-valued.
It defaults to \fImemberOf\fP.

.TP
.BI nestgroup\-base \ <dn>
The value
.I <dn>
specifies a subtree that contains group entries in the DIT. This
may be specified multiple times for multiple distinct subtrees.
It has no default and the overlay does no processing unless it is
explicitly configured.

.TP
.BI "nestgroup\-flags {" member-filter ", " memberof-filter ", " member-values ", " memberof-values "}"
This option specifies which features to enable in the overlay.
By default, nothing is enabled and the overlay is a no-op.

.LP
The nestgroup overlay may be used with any backend that provides standard
search functionality.

.SH FILES
.TP
ETCDIR/slapd.conf
default slapd configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR slapo\-dynlist (5),
.BR slapo\-memberof (5),
.BR slapd.conf (5),
.BR slapd\-config (5),
.BR slapd (8).
The
.BR slapo\-nestgroup (5)
overlay supports dynamic configuration via
.BR back-config .
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.P
This module was written in 2024 by Howard Chu of Symas Corporation.

