.TH LDAPVC 1 "RELEASEDATE" "OpenLDAP LDVERSION"
.\" $OpenLDAP$
.\" Copyright 1998-2021 The OpenLDAP Foundation All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copying restrictions apply.  See COPYRIGHT/LICENSE.
.SH NAME
ldapvc \- LDAP verify credentials tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldapvc
[\c
.BR \-V [ V ]]
[\c
.BI \-d \ debuglevel\fR]
[\c
.BR \-a ]
[\c
.BR \-b ]
[\c
.BR \-n ]
[\c
.BR \-v ]
[\c
.BR \-x ]
[\c
.BI \-D \ binddn\fR]
[\c
.BR \-W ]
[\c
.BI \-w \ passwd\fR]
[\c
.BI \-y \ passwdfile\fR]
[\c
.BI \-H \ ldapuri\fR]
[\c
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]]
[\c
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]]
[\c
.BI \-O \ security-properties\fR]
[\c
.BR \-I ]
[\c
.BR \-Q ]
[\c
.BR \-N ]
[\c
.BI \-U \ authcid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-R \ realm\fR]
[\c
.BI \-X \ authzid\fR]
[\c
.BI \-Y \ mech\fR]
[\c
.BR \-Z [ Z ]]
\c
.I Distinguished Name \
\c
.I [Credentials]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I ldapvc
implements the LDAP "Verify Credentials" extended operation.
.LP
.B Verify Credentials
operation behaves like LDAP Bind but has no impact upon the underlying LDAP session.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-V [ V ]
Print version info.
If \fB\-VV\fP is given, only the version information is printed.
.TP
.BI \-d \ debuglevel
Set the LDAP debugging level to \fIdebuglevel\fP.
.B ldapvc
must be compiled with LDAP_DEBUG defined for this option to have any effect.
.TP
.B \-a
Print the authzID resulting from a successful verification of credentials.
.TP
.B \-b
Print the results from the ppolicy control after verification of credentials.
.TP
.B \-n
Show what would be done, but don't actually perform the operation.
Useful for
debugging in conjunction with \fB\-v\fP.
.TP
.B \-v
Run in verbose mode, with many diagnostics written to standard output.
.TP
.B \-x 
Use simple authentication instead of SASL.
.TP
.BI \-D \ binddn
Use the Distinguished Name \fIbinddn\fP to bind to the LDAP directory.
For SASL binds, the server is expected to ignore this value.
.TP
.B \-W
Prompt for simple authentication.
This is used instead of specifying the password on the command line.
.TP
.BI \-w \ passwd
Use \fIpasswd\fP as the password for simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-y \ passwdfile
Use complete contents of \fIpasswdfile\fP as the password for
simple authentication.
.TP
.BI \-H \ ldapuri
Specify URI(s) referring to the ldap server(s); only the protocol/host/port
fields are allowed; a list of URI, separated by whitespace or commas
is expected.
.TP
.BR \-e \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]
.TP
.BR \-E \ [ ! ] \fIext\fP [ =\fIextparam\fP ]

Specify general extensions with \fB\-e\fP and Verify Credentials extensions with \fB\-E\fP.
\'\fB!\fP\' indicates criticality.

General extensions:
.nf
  [!]assert=<filter>    (an RFC 4515 Filter)
  [!]bauthzid           (RFC 3829 authzid control)
  [!]chaining[=<resolve>[/<cont>]]
  [!]manageDSAit
  [!]noop
  ppolicy
  [!]postread[=<attrs>] (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]preread[=<attrs>]  (a comma-separated attribute list)
  [!]relax
  sessiontracking[=<username>]
  abandon,cancel,ignore (SIGINT sends abandon/cancel,
  or ignores response; if critical, doesn't wait for SIGINT.
  not really controls)
.fi
.sp
Verify Credentials extensions:
.sp
The following options set SASL params on the Verify Credentials request:
.nf
  authcid=<authcid>    (SASL Authentication Identity "dn:<dn>" or "u:<user>")
  authzid=<authzid>    (SASL Authorization Identity "dn:<dn>" or "u:<user>")
  mech=<mech>          (SASL mechanism default e.g. Simple)
  realm=<realm>        (SASL Realm, defaults to none)
  sasl=a[utomatic]|i[nteractive]|q[uiet]  (SASL mode defaults to automatic if any other -E option provided, otherwise none)
  secprops=<secprops>  (SASL Security Properties)
.fi
.TP
.BI \-o \ opt \fR[= optparam \fR]

Specify any
.BR ldap.conf (5)
option or one of the following:
.nf
  nettimeout=<timeout>  (in seconds, or "none" or "max")
  ldif_wrap=<width>     (in columns, or "no" for no wrapping)
.fi

.B -o
option that can be passed here, check
.BR ldap.conf (5)
for details.
.TP
.BI \-O \ security-properties
Specify SASL security properties.
.TP
.B \-I
Enable SASL Interactive mode.  Always prompt.  Default is to prompt
only as needed.
.TP
.B \-Q
Enable SASL Quiet mode.  Never prompt.
.TP
.B \-N
Do not use reverse DNS to canonicalize SASL host name.
.TP
.BI \-U \ authcid
Specify the authentication ID for SASL bind. The form of the ID
depends on the actual SASL mechanism used.
.TP
.BI \-R \ realm
Specify the realm of authentication ID for SASL bind. The form of the realm
depends on the actual SASL mechanism used.
.TP
.BI \-X \ authzid
Specify the requested authorization ID for SASL bind.
.I authzid
must be one of the following formats:
.BI dn: "<distinguished name>"
or
.BI u: <username>
.TP
.BI \-Y \ mech
Specify the SASL mechanism to be used for authentication. If it's not
specified, the program will choose the best mechanism the server knows.
.TP
.BR \-Z [ Z ]
Issue StartTLS (Transport Layer Security) extended operation. If you use
\fB\-ZZ\fP, the command will require the operation to be successful.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
    ldapvc \-x "uid=Alice,ou=People,dc=example,dc=com"
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ldap.conf (5),
.BR ldap (3),
.BR ldap_extended_operation (3)
.SH AUTHOR
The OpenLDAP Project <http://www.openldap.org/>
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
.so ../Project
